Week 1
Data Collection
Data Collection is the first step in solving any analysis problem and can be collected in many formats and from many sources. In the first module of the Capstone, we will collect data by scraping the internet and using web APIs.

    1. Course Introduction
Congratulations on making it this far! Successfully completing this Capstone project will earn you the Data Analyst Professional Certificate. This Capstone provides you a practical hands on experience to demonstrate all of the skills you have picked up so far in this Professional Certificate program. As part of the capstone project, you will take on the role of a Data Analyst with a global IT and Business Services firm. In this role, you will be analyzing several datasets to help identify trends for emerging technologies. In Module 1 you will collect data for the technology skills that are in demand from various sources including: Job postings, blog posts, surveys. In Module 2, you will take the collected data and prepare it for analysis by using data wrangling techniques like: Finding duplicates, removing duplicates, finding missing values, and inputting missing values. You’ll continue to module 3 and apply statistical techniques to analyze the data and identify insights and trends like: What are the top programming languages that are in demand? What are the top database skills that are in demand? What are the most popular IDEs? And Demographic data like gender and age distribution of developers. In module 4, you’ll focus on choosing an appropriate visualization based on the data you want to present using charts, plots, and histograms to help reveal your findings and trends. In module 5, you will employ Cognos to create interactive dashboards to help you analyze and present the data dynamically. In the final module, you will use your storytelling skills to provide a narrative and present the findings of your analysis. You will be provided with a presentation template to begin the process and to help you create a compelling story and present your findings. Each module includes a short quiz to test your knowledge. You will be evaluated based on the quizzes in each module. The dashboard and the storytelling presentation you create that will be reviewed and graded by your peers. To begin, I recommend taking a few minutes to explore the course site. Review the material we’ll cover each week and preview the assignments you’ll need to complete to pass the course. Click “Discussions” to see forums where you can discuss the course material with fellow learners and course team. If you have questions about course content, please post them in the forums to get help from others in the course community. For technical problems with the Coursera platform, visit the Learner Help Center. We are excited to have you join us and hope you enjoy the course. Good luck and let’s get started!
    2. Introduction To Capstone Project
    3. Syllabus
    4. Obtain IBM Cloud Feature Code and Activate Trial Account
    5. Hands-on Lab 0 - Getting Started with Watson Studio
    6.  Hands-on Lab 1 - Review Of Accessing APIs
    7. API Access Details
    8. Hands-on Lab 2 - Collecting Data Using APIs
    9. Hands-on Lab 2 - Collecting Data Using APIs
    10.  Hands-on Lab 3 - Review Of Web Scraping
    11.  Hands-on Lab 4 - Collecting Data Using Web Scraping
    12.  Hands-on Lab 4 - Collecting Data Using Web Scraping
    13.  About The Dataset
    14.  Hands-on Lab 5 - Explore the Data Set
    15.  Graded Quiz - Collecting Data
    16.  Graded Quiz - Web Scraping
    17.  Graded Quiz - Exploring Data
Week 2
Data Wrangling
In this module, you will be focusing on the cleaning of your dataset with various techniques. With these techniques you will be identifying duplicate rows, finding missing values, and normalizing the data.

    1. Assignment Overview
    2. Jupyter Notebook For Labs In This Module
    3. Hands-on Lab 6 - Finding Duplicates
    4. Hands-on Lab 7 - Removing Duplicates
    5. Hands-on Lab 8 - Finding Missing Values
    6. Hands-on Lab 9 - Imput Missing Values
    7. Hands-on Lab 10 - Normalizing Data
    8. Hands-on Lab - Data Wrangling
    9. Graded Quiz - Duplicates
    10.  Graded Quiz - Removing Duplicates
    11.  Graded Quiz - Missing Values
    12.  Graded Quiz - Imputing Missing Values
    13.  Graded Quiz - Normalizing Data
Week 3
Exploratory Data Analysis
In this module, begin working with the cleaned dataset from the previous module. You will now begin to analyze the dataset to find the distribution of data, presence of outliers and the correlation between different columns.

    1. Assignment Overview
    2. Jupyter Notebook For Labs In This Module
    3. Hands-on Lab 11 - Finding How The Data Is Distributed
    4. Hands-on Lab 12 - Finding Outliers
    5. Hands-on Lab 13 - Finding Correlation
    6. Hands-on Lab - Exploratory Data Analysis
    7. Graded Quiz - Distribution
    8. Graded Quiz - Handling Outliers
    9. Graded Quiz - Correlation
Week 4
Data Visualization
In module 4 of the Capstone, you will be required to create visualizations using the developer survey data. The visualizations you create should highlight the distribution of data, relationships between data, the composition of data, and comparison of data.

    1. Assignment Overview
    2. Jupyter Notebook For Labs In This Module
    3. Hands-on Lab 14 - Histograms
    4. Hands-on Lab 15 - Box Plots
    5. Graded Quiz - Visualizing Distribution Of Data
    6. Hands-on Lab 16 - Scatter Plots
    7. Hands-on Lab 17 - Bubble Plots
    8. Hands-on Lab 18 - Pie Charts
    9. Hands-on Lab 19 - Stacked Charts
    10.  Hands-on Lab 20 - Line Charts
    11.  Hands-on Lab 21 - Bar Charts
    12.  Hands-on Lab - Data Visualization
    13.  Graded Quiz - Visualizing Relationship
    14.  Graded Quiz - Visualizing Composition of Data
    15.  Graded Quiz - Visualizing Comparison of Data
Week 5
Building A Dashboard
In this module, you will create a dashboard using IBM Cognos Analytics. This platform will give you the ability to create various charts while assembling a dashboard that is appealing and easy to understand. Your dashboard will contain your data analysis, which should be intuitive and allow for the drill-down of data.

    1. Assignment Overview
    2. Hands-on Lab 22 - Getting Started With Cognos Dashboard Embedded
    3. Peer-Graded Assignment - Building A Dashboard With Cognos Dashboard Embedded
    4. Module 5 Assessment Information
    5. Peer-Graded Assignment - Dashboards
Week 6
Final Assignment - Present Your Findings
You have analyzed the data in the previous modules, and now it is time to demonstrate your storytelling skills. In this module, you will create a compelling story that helps to clarify your analysis in an easy-to-understand presentation.

    1. Elements Of A Successful Data Findings Report
While finding and cleaning data is an important first step in data analysis, a concept can be lost if you are not able to organize and represent the findings effectively to your audience. In this video, you will learn how to represent your findings by focusing on specific elements to create a successful data findings report. After the data has been collected, cleaned, and organized the work of interpretation begins. You are now able to obtain a complete view of the data and hopefully, answer the questions that were formed before starting the analysis. Now, you typically begin to compose a findings report that explains what was learned. Depending on the stakeholders and how they receive the information, your report could vary in form. This could include a paper style report, a slideshow presentation, or maybe even both. The findings report is a crucial part of data analysis, as it conveys what was discovered. When beginning this process, the collected data and information may seem a little overwhelming. The best way to get through this block is to begin by creating an outline. By completing an outline, you can then get a complete picture and begin to write in a precise but simple manner. While there are many different formats for creating a data-driven presentation, we have created a simple outline that is easy to follow yet effective. When creating your outline always remember to structure it towards your audience and create a presentation that is appropriate for your situation. You first begin with your cover page. This beginning section will have the title of your presentation, your name, and then the date. The next section in your outline will be an executive summary and then the table of contents. The table of contents will contain the sections and subsections of your report in order to give your audience an overview of the contents. This also enables readers to go directly to a specific section that may be more important to them. Continue your presentation with the introduction, methodology, results, discussion, conclusion, and finally the appendix. Please note the depth and length for each element may vary depending on the audience and format of report. The first step in creating your report is properly creating an executive summary. This summary will briefly explain the details of the project and should be considered a stand-alone document. This information is taken from the main points of your report and while it is acceptable to repeat information, no new information is presented. The next section, after the table of contents, is the introduction. The introduction explains the nature of the analysis, states the problem, and gives the questions that were to be answered by performing the analysis. The next section is methodology. Methodology explains the data sources that were used in the analysis and outlines the plan for the collected data. For example, was the cluster or regression method used to analyze the data? Next, we have the results section. This section goes into the detail of the data collection, how it was organized, and how it was analyzed. This portion would also contain the charts and graphs that would substantiate the results and call attention to the more complex or crucial findings. By providing this interpretation of data, you are able to give a detailed explanation to the audience and how it relates to the problem that was stated in the introduction. Next is the discussion of the report findings and implications. For this section you would begin to engage the audience with a discussion of your implications that were drawn from the research. For example, let’s say you were conducting research for top programming languages for college graduates. Would you find they need to learn multiple languages to remain competitive in the job market, or would one language always reign supreme? We have now reached the conclusion of the report findings. This final section should reiterate the problem given in the introduction and gives an overall summary of the findings. It would also state the outcome of the analysis and if any other steps would be taken in the future. Lastly, we have the appendix. This section would contain information that really didn’t fit in the main body of the report, but you deemed it was still important enough to include. This type of information could include locations where the raw data was collected or other details such as resources, acknowledgements or references. In this video, we learned about the important elements in creating a successful data findings report. In the next video, we will learn the best practices when presenting your findings.

    2. Structure Of A Report
    3. Best Practices For Presenting Your Findings
Okay, you’ve spent weeks, maybe months, studying the data and the time has come to report your findings. The questions have been answered, and you feel good about the story. How will you speak to your audience so they leave with the intended message? In this video, learn how to present your findings in a way that will engage and keep the attention of your audience. Delivering data-driven presentations may seem easy, but there are a few important factors to remember in accurately conveying your message. Make sure charts and graphs are not too small and are clearly labeled, Use the data only as supporting evidence, Share only one point from each chart or graph, and Eliminate data that does not support the key message. Have you ever sat through a presentation and the information being presented was difficult to read or understand? While this may seem apparent, small charts and labels can be easily overlooked. Make sure to test the visualizations by sitting at different distances, similar to your audience, and if the data cannot be seen clearly then maybe a redesign should be considered. When preparing the report, you may feel the only way to explain the findings is to pack the slides with data. While this may seem sensible as a data analyst, your audience will probably not appreciate the intricacies of the data and just see a pile of numbers. To resolve this issue, begin by forming the key messages that need to be conveyed to the audience and build the story around these messages. After forming the outline, go back and insert the data to support your findings. By not relying heavily on the data and using this method to create the presentation, you will create a story that is engaging and interesting to your audience. Presenting your data using charts and graphs is the best way to get your message across to the audience, however, if you are supplying too much information it can be confusing. For example, looking at this pie chart, can you decipher what the key message is, and what the presenter is trying to convey? In the example, the chart has so much information it is hard to determine what point the presenter is trying to make and what the focus should be for the audience. By sticking with one idea and not summarizing multiple points into one visualization, you are able to accurately convey the idea to the audience and avoid any confusion. Data analysts can spend months researching data, however, some items that seem interesting to the analyst may not be relevant to the project. Trying to explain every little detail to your audience and not recognizing irrelevant data could damage the key message. By eliminating this unnecessary data and highlighting only data points that support your key ideas, you will keep the presentation clear and concise. In this video, we learned about creating a data-driven presentation that will keep the audience engaged and how to deliver a clear and concise message.

    4. Hands-on Lab 24 - Getting Started With PowerPoint For The Web
    5. Hands-on Lab 25 - Basics of PowerPoint
    6. Hands-on Lab 26 - Save your PowerPoint Presentation as PDF
    7. Assignment Overview
    8. Exercise - Preparing Your Presentation
    9. Congratulations and Next Steps
    10.  Course Credits and Acknowledgements
    11.  Peer-graded Assignment
